[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: So
what you all are going to be doing,
you've got three functions
that we have to build out.
One is partially built out and
the other two not at all.
But this one is the d code token, so
it's going to be the middleware that
we are going to use when we want to
check the incoming request token.
Its job is to do exactly what it says,
is to decode the token.
Is to take the token with the secret,
turn it back to what it was originally.
Or at least attempt to.
If it can't, it should let us know so
we can send an error back.
A lot is happening here.
You can read the comments here.
But in short, remember I was saying
earlier, the token should be on
the authorization header, but optionally,
it could also be on the query string.
This is what this check is doing.
It's like, okay, if we have req.query, and
req.query has an access_token property,
they probably put the token on there.
So let's grab the token off of that, and
let's attach it to
req.headers.authorization.
Now the weird thing that's going on
here is you see this word, Bearer.
We didn't talk about this.
And then I'm adding the token to that.
So, in the spec, what's happening here is
that, or at least this check token thing,
at least, is looking for the token string
with a word called Bearer, just like this.
Bearer, with a space after it,
followed by the token.
That's actually in the spec.
If you go read the JWT spec, most of
these libraries are expecting to see
Bearer space the token, so
that's why that's there.
If you got rid of this, or
just did that, it wouldn't work.
Even if this was a valid token,
it won't work.
So this is, I guess, a way of name-spacing
that this is a json web token.
Cuz there are so
many other tokens you could put out there
on an authorization header I guess.
So Bearer maybe is a way to name-space it.
But it is expecting that.
So we attach it to
the authorization header, and
then checkToken takes in the request,
the response and next, and
because the authorization
header is on the request.
checkToken will do one of a few things,
it will either called next if the token is
valid, so it's like cool this token
is valid I'm gonna call next and
it will go to the next middleware.
If it's not valid,
it will call next with an error.
So, it'll still call next but
a passing error like unauthorized.
>> Scott Moss: If it is successful,
it will grab whatever is spit back
from the decoding of the token,
and attach it to rec.user.
What's in our case, will only ever be
an ID, will only ever signing an ID.
So the ID's going to be
a task to direct.user.
So you'll use direct.user._.id and
you'll get the ID and
then it'll call next.
So all this, you don't have to
work with this, this is good.
What you will have to do is
these two things down here, so
getFreshUser is exactly
what it sounds like.
So now that we got the token,
we got the ID back, now we want to clear
the database and get the user with the ID.
So by the time it gets to our controllers,
the controller can just say, req.user and
it has the user object on the request.
That's what this is going to do.
Again, I said up here it does attach
the ID to req.user, but that's just a ID.
We can now use that ID to get
the full user from the database and
replace right that user with
the actual user document.
So by time it gets to the control
event that the controller can just say
right that user, it knows
everything about the incoming user.
So that's what you gotta do inside
this function, tell it, have it so
you can just redraw it.
But really,
you are gonna do is create the database,
you have access to
req.user inside of here.
Because this getFresh middleware is
always gonna run after decode token,
because we're gonna use it that way.
So just assume that you
have req.user here and
it's an object within
underscore id property.
Given that, you can create a database and
find the appropriate user and
direct to that user.
If you don't find the user,
one or two things happen.
We get into those edge cases where
either they figured out your secret,
they made adjacent web token,
they sent it in, it decoded perfectly and
then it came here and you then you looked
in your database for a req.user.id and
there was nothing in there.
Then one of two things happened.
That's not a real requests
from one of your users, or
the time between they got that
signed token and this time,
the user doesn't exist anymore in the
database somehow, maybe you deleted it,
I don't know.
>> Scott Moss: So
do that and be sure to call Next.
Because this is a middleware function.
So you have to call Next.
That also means if you have an error
in your database you call Next and
pass them the error.
And I'll leave it up to you to decide
what to do if the database goes
to the database, does not return an error,
but doesn't find a user either.
So I'll leave it up to you to
decide what you wanna do there.
And then exports.verify user.
This is going to do something similar but
a little bit different.
So this is going to, actually checking,
like, the passwords.
This is where we're doing the sign in.
So, this is giving the username and pass
Is gonna look up the user by the username,
grab a task password, and
check to see if this password,
after it's hatched,
is matching with a safe hash password.
So as far as hashing the passwords,
you don't have to do that.
I have a method for that,
We haven't gotten there,
but it's in there.
You will not be hashing
the passwords yourself,
cuz we're calling a function
that are already there.
So you'll be doing those two functions and
off that JS.
And if you follow me into API user
model, we get into that stuff
that I was talking about.
The middleware with Mongoose and
then teaching Mongoose new methods.
So we have this one middleware pair
that says UserSchema.pre save, so
this happens anytime before we create
a new user, this function will run.
So what's happening here is
it's converting the password
to an encrypted password.
It's encrypting the password,
that's what it's doing.
That's all it's doing, it's like give me
the password, I'm going to encrypt it so
we also added a password field up here to.
There's type, there's string and
also required.
So it's overriding the plain text
password with an encrypted password and
then it's called a next.
So then it you go down and look at
these methods, we have authenticate,
which takes a plain text password and
will return true or false if this
user's saved past password matches
the has plain text password.
So this is perfect for sign-up.
So this is what you would use and
verify user.
It even says it right here.
Use the authenticated method
on the user document.
So this is the authenticated
method that it's talking about.
And then encrypt password just takes
a password and it generates a salt and
it encrypts it synchronously, which is
probably not the recommended approach, but
I wanted to keep this
as simple as possible.
You'd probably wanna do this
synchronously to avoid time attacks.
But, we're gonna do this synchronously.
>> Scott Moss: So,
that's what's going on here.
Any questions on this stuff?
You don't need to touch anything here, but
I wanted you to some context
in what's happening.
All of the stuff you're
going to be touching is
off.js.
>> Speaker 2: And
for how long?
>> Scott Moss: Hold
up I still got a little bit more
to show them and then we'll start.
So off.js is where you're
gonna be touching.
If you also go look in the other
files like off.controller, or
I'm sorry controller.js and routes,
some other stuff going on in here.
Inside the controller,
there's a sign in method.
You'll also be doing this one.
This one is just going to,
you can assume req.user will be there from
the middleware that we're gonna assign.
So we can just create a token and
send it back to the client.
So that's all this is going to do.
It's going to go like,
okay, get the req.user.
Get the ID from that, and create
a token and send it back to the client.
If you're looking off that JS,
we have this signed token thing
here that will sign the token.
We just need to send it back.
The way we want to send it back is we
want to send back an object that has
a token property and
its value is the token.
That's what we wanna send back,
so it'll be something like that.
So this would be two lines.
So if you go look at the routes,
this is the route that is happening.
We have a new router.
On sign-in,
we're gonna do controller.signin,
but we need to do something
before this happens.
We need to verify the user,
because they're trying to sign in.
So that's where that method
verifyUser comes in right here.
That's a middleware function.
So complete that,
add that middleware here,
and make sure we're signing the token and
sending it back.
And then complete these two functions.
So one more thing.
So that's all you're gonna have to do.
And you can do this without
the thing I'm about to show you.
But to make it easier, if you want to,
or you can wait until the next step.
On GitHub, there's another
repo on the Frontend Masters.
Github.com.
That we did during the two-day
course earlier this week.
And it is angular components
on the, where is it at?
There should be a Blog branch.
I need to push it up actually.
Yeah, we'll wait till the next step for
this.
And then we'll push it up.
So I have a client app for you guys so
you can actually play with the blog and
see the API and all that stuff work.
But I'll push it up after lunch so
you guys can see it.
It's on a different branch.
So knowing that, let's get started.
We've got 30 minutes,
and that'll bring us, yes?
>> Speaker 2: Just a quick
couple questions.
Somebody is asking if they
need Python to run NPM for
this step.
>> Scott Moss: No,
they should not need Python.
>> Speaker 2: They're getting an error.
I'll try to follow up with them on chat.
And then somebody else said, could you
speak briefly to placing encryption,
decryption methods on a model versus
putting them in something like Passport?
>> Scott Moss: So, I guess when we talk
a Passport,
cuz Passport's job is to authenticate,
I guess you might think it
does make sense to do that.
But, now you're putting the logic, as far
as authentication, as far as hashing and
stuff that the database needs to work.
You're putting that in
something like Passport.
Which, I guess is safe, but maybe you want
to switch out Passport tomorrow, right?
And then, now you have to move that logic.
Or maybe, you were doing so many
different types of authentication schemes
in Passport, and you have to write
the same thing over and over and over and
over again in different schemes, or
you have to build an abstraction around
password so you don't write it over and
over and over again.
I still wouldn't put it in Passport,
Passport's more like, Passport's more like
I wouldn't give the sign in
of my tokens to password.
Password's more like,
I'm gonna handle oauth for you, or
I'm gonna handle a local sign in.
Password's gonna do what we did,
as far as allowing us to
get access to the incoming password or
username and email, but
as far as the signing and checking of it,
you can do it in Passport, but the thing
that's calling that method should
still be your document, in my opinion.
Although there is no wrong or right way.
You can still do it in Passport.
That's the beauty of having it on
the model here, our user model because
it's on an instance of user, we'll
have access to user inside a password.
In Passport, you'll query and
you'll get the user and
you can just call user.authenticate or
user.encrypt password inside a Passport.
So there's really no loss there,
I think it's all about where you
define it not where you use it